<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:exslt="http://exslt.org/strings">
  <xhtml:head>
    <xhtml:meta name="Keywords" content=""/>
    <xhtml:title>Validation</xhtml:title>
    <xhtml:meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
    <xhtml:style type="text/css">
	  body {color:blue;}  
	  p  {line-height=130%;}
	  h1 {text-align:center;}
	  h2 {text-align:center;}
	  h3 {text-align:center;}
	  pre { color:#800080;}
	  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
	  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
	  nav {
	    background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
	    position: absolute;
	    top :0px;
	    bottom:0;
	    left: 0;
	    width: 240px;
	    }
	 section {
	    position: relative;
	    margin-left: 250px;
	    }
	</xhtml:style>
  </xhtml:head>
  <xhtml:body>
    <xhtml:div id="navbar"/>
    <xhtml:section>
      <xhtml:a href="index.xhtml">
        <xhtml:img xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"/>
      </xhtml:a>
      <xhtml:br/>
      <xhtml:p>Xml validation is the process of checking that
an xml document follows the rules for that type
of document.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>This validation is essential so that the tools (such as templates)
can operate on the data.  Validating the xml is a good way of
preventing errors later.  These validation rules are written in
some form of formalised language.  Many languages can be used
for this purpose, for example a validation template could be
written in xslt and xpath.  Languages commonly used for validation
include DTD's, XML Schema and RelaxNG.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>The choice of validation languages is influenced by the toolsets
in use, company policy and other considerations.  
In our case <xhtml:a href="http://relaxng.org/spec-20011203.html">RelaxNG</xhtml:a>, 
<xhtml:a href="http://relaxng.org/compact.html">compact syntax</xhtml:a>, 
is needed for compatibility
with the emacs editor, however the use of XFORMS requires XML Schema.
Fortunately there exists a utility "trang" converts from relax ng to 
XML Schema.  To maintain consistency between the versions a make file
is created to run trang as required.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>Unfortunately trang does not handle file inclusions as defined in
the relax ng specification.  A program external.erl has been written to
do the file inclusions, the resulting temporary file is then passed to
trang.  The call to external.beam (the compiled version of external.erl)
is included in the makefile.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>The relaxng specification for this project is:
<xhtml:pre>
<xi:include href="site.rnc" parse="text"/>
</xhtml:pre>
</xhtml:p>
    </xhtml:section>
    <xhtml:script>
//  test1
  function writeNavbar(Contents)
  {
  document.getElementById("navbar").innerHTML=Contents;
  };
  function httpGetAsync(theUrl, callback)
  {
    var xmlHttp = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xmlHttp.onreadystatechange = function() { 
        if (xmlHttp.readyState == 4 &amp;&amp; xmlHttp.status == 200)
            callback(xmlHttp.responseText);
    }
    xmlHttp.open("GET", theUrl, true); // true for asynchronous 
    xmlHttp.send(null);
  };
  httpGetAsync(
//
  "main_nav.xml",writeNavbar);</xhtml:script>
  </xhtml:body>
</xhtml:html>
