<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:exslt="http://exslt.org/strings">
  <xhtml:head>
    <xhtml:meta name="Keywords" content=""/>
    <xhtml:title>Split Pages</xhtml:title>
    <xhtml:meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
    <xhtml:style type="text/css">
	  body {color:blue;}  
	  p  {line-height=130%;}
	  h1 {text-align:center;}
	  h2 {text-align:center;}
	  h3 {text-align:center;}
	  pre { color:#800080;}
	  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
	  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
	  nav {
	    background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
	    position: absolute;
	    top :0px;
	    bottom:0;
	    left: 0;
	    width: 240px;
	    }
	 section {
	    position: relative;
	    margin-left: 250px;
	    }
	</xhtml:style>
  </xhtml:head>
  <xhtml:body>
    <xhtml:div id="navbar"/>
    <xhtml:section>
      <xhtml:a href="index.xhtml">
        <xhtml:img xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"/>
      </xhtml:a>
      <xhtml:br/>
      <xhtml:h2 xmlns:ax="abc">Split Pages</xhtml:h2>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">My original idea was that the pagedata.xml would define the
relationship between pages, and style information for the site.
A build process would use this information to build the html
webpages and each webpage would come out as a separate file.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">Upon reflection I recognise that the whole website
could have been created as a single file and intrapage  
links used to get around the page.  The purpose of this site
is to document how it is not what it may have been, and
this page splitting functionality is part of the existing design</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">As XSLT 1.0 does not have the ability
to save each page to a separate file, this is done by an external
script written in Erlang.  Any suitable language could be used
for this task.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:h3 xmlns:ax="abc">splitpages.escript</xhtml:h3>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">In this case the make_web.xsl emits a line starting with
"filename: FileNameValue" where a new file named FileNameValue
should be started.
</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">The <xhtml:a href="splitpages.escript">splitpages</xhtml:a> source code can be viewed here.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:h3 xmlns:ax="abc">The abc:file tag</xhtml:h3>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">Another approach to splitting the pages has been to define
an "file" tag in the "abc" namespace.  The source code here
is again written in erlang, but this time the input is read by
the erlsom SAX parser.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">Most of the code is merely copying the input xml to the output.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">The <xhtml:a href="xslt_extn.erl">xslt_extn</xhtml:a> source code can be read here.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p xmlns:ax="abc">This code also includes a parse="text" version of xinclude as the xmllint
version of this appears to be broken.</xhtml:p>
    </xhtml:section>
    <xhtml:script>
//  test1
  function writeNavbar(Contents)
  {
  document.getElementById("navbar").innerHTML=Contents;
  };
  function httpGetAsync(theUrl, callback)
  {
    var xmlHttp = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xmlHttp.onreadystatechange = function() { 
        if (xmlHttp.readyState == 4 &amp;&amp; xmlHttp.status == 200)
            callback(xmlHttp.responseText);
    }
    xmlHttp.open("GET", theUrl, true); // true for asynchronous 
    xmlHttp.send(null);
  };
  httpGetAsync(
//
  "main_nav.xml",writeNavbar);</xhtml:script>
  </xhtml:body>
</xhtml:html>
