<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:exslt="http://exslt.org/strings">
  <xhtml:head>
    <xhtml:meta name="Keywords" content=""/>
    <xhtml:title>xml processing</xhtml:title>
    <xhtml:meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
    <xhtml:style type="text/css">
	  body {color:blue;}  
	  p  {line-height=130%;}
	  h1 {text-align:center;}
	  h2 {text-align:center;}
	  h3 {text-align:center;}
	  pre { color:#800080;}
	  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
	  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
	  nav {
	    background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
	    position: absolute;
	    top :0px;
	    bottom:0;
	    left: 0;
	    width: 240px;
	    }
	 section {
	    position: relative;
	    margin-left: 250px;
	    }
	</xhtml:style>
  </xhtml:head>
  <xhtml:body>
    <xhtml:div id="navbar"/>
    <xhtml:section>
      <xhtml:a href="index.xhtml">
        <xhtml:img xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"/>
      </xhtml:a>
      <xhtml:br/>
      <xhtml:p>XML processors of which there are three common types, SAX, DOM, XSLT
tokenise an XML document and these tokens are processed by the user application, not the raw text file.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>SAX and DOM are libraries that make the content of the XML document
available to a host language such as Java.  DOM is used in conjuction
with JavaScript in AJAX web pages.  XSLT is an XML based language for
processing XML documents.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>The API's for each language are different and independent, but they
exhibit strong simiarities.  XSLT is an important part of many XML tool
chains.  It can be used to convert a document (eg docbook) to pdf through
XSLT-FO.  XSLT delegates the interrogation of the XML document to the
XPATH language.</xhtml:p>
      <xhtml:p>XPATH is also used as an XML interrogation language by XQUERY. XPATH expressions operate on a tree of nodes.  DOM offers such a tree.  An XPATH processor may operate on a DOM tree, or any other representation it chooses.  Proficiency with both XSLT and XQUERY requires a sound proficiency in XPATH.  The node types of an xml document (as defined by XPATH) are:
<xhtml:ul>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>root nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>element nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>text nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>attribute nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>namespace nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>processing instruction nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li>
<xhtml:p>comment nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

</xhtml:ul>

</xhtml:p>
    </xhtml:section>
    <xhtml:script>
//  test1
  function writeNavbar(Contents)
  {
  document.getElementById("navbar").innerHTML=Contents;
  };
  function httpGetAsync(theUrl, callback)
  {
    var xmlHttp = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xmlHttp.onreadystatechange = function() { 
        if (xmlHttp.readyState == 4 &amp;&amp; xmlHttp.status == 200)
            callback(xmlHttp.responseText);
    }
    xmlHttp.open("GET", theUrl, true); // true for asynchronous 
    xmlHttp.send(null);
  };
  httpGetAsync(
//
  "main_nav.xml",writeNavbar);</xhtml:script>
  </xhtml:body>
</xhtml:html>
